in with some breaking news out of Gaza
there have been more Israeli airstrikes
this time killing two Palestinians in a
car it comes just hours after funerals
were held for three senior Islamic Jihad
commanders who were killed in overnight
Israeli attacks ten others were also
killed including children
let's go live to Gaza we're going to
speak to yumna al-side what more do we
know about these latest airstrikes
yes Rob so the latest airstrike was
carried just about half an hour ago even
less in on a car that had two people the
car was directly targeted with a drone
missile uh where it was completely
burned and uh this brings the death toll
to 15 people
including the assassination of the three
Islamic Jihad commanders and 20 others
who are who have been heavily and
critically injured according to the
Ministry of Health in Gaza more
airstrikes meanwhile have been taking
place in artillery shells have been
taking place in high news that's in the
southern part of the strip in the same
part of in the same part where the last
direct assassination of that car or
targeting of that car took place
tell us a little bit about the three
leaders of Islamic jihads that were
killed in the earlier strikes
yes so the three leaders are senior
commanders in Islamic Jihad uh these
also it's very uh note uh to to say that
worth noting to say that these leaders
were supposed to be uh traveling uh as
uh with another delegation from the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad to Cairo this
morning to uh to participate in security
meeting the three leaders where uh
commanders High Senior commanders in
Islamic Jihad
uh they're they're a specific uh
information and names are Khalil
al-bahtani who is a member of the
military Council of alcott's Brigade
that's the military wing of Islamic
Jihad and also uh he is one of the
leaders of the military action of the
brigades in the West Bank uh zidin was
also one of those prisoners who was
freed in the Shalit deal and he was
brought here to Gaza where he is
originally from nablis while the third
one is Jihad al-qanim he is the
secretary of the military Council in
alcott's brigades it's also worth noting
that Khalil al-bhatani was assigned
after the assassination of the previous
leader in August 2022 in the Israeli
attack on Islamic Jihad commanders as
well here in the Gaza Strip and see I'm
outside talking to us from Gaza all of
that is Raising tensions at the Gaza
Israel border and William Marx is in
Ashkelon in Israel for us
um Islamic Jihad has been promising our
response to what has been happening
people there waiting to see what that
reaction is going to be William
yeah that's right and of course Israeli
authorities since the early hours of
this morning have been telling residents
in this region here we're about four
miles from the northern part of Gaza
here to make sure they stay close to
Rocket shelters and indeed some local
authorities here have said that over the
course of the last few hours they've
been encouraging residents to leave
dozens of families have already made the
journey further north and east from here
further away from the potential rocket
fire that Israeli authorities clearly
are expecting we've heard from jov
Gallant the defense minister speaking to
local politicians and leaders here over
the course of today warning that there
could be Conflict for several days he's
concerned he said that there could be a
prolonged campaign with an extended
range of fire that would mean of course
Rockets traveling much further into
Israel than even where we're standing
here Israeli media also quoting one
senior Israeli official is saying that
everything depends now on how Hamas will
act its engagement or lack of Engagement
in firing Rockets as a response will
determine the level of escalation and
Tall winners and very important to note
here the special representative for the
United Nations here when it comes to the
Middle East peace process asking for
quote maximum restraint and really
hoping they said for an avoidance of
that further escalation well then thanks
very much indeed desert and Marx talking
to us from Ashkelon in Israel on the
border with Gaza where Muhammad jams in
West Jerusalem for us what is Israel
saying about all of this Muhammad
so Rob let me first bring you up to date
on what we've just heard from the
Israeli Army concerning that latest air
strike that just happened in the last 15
minutes or so there was a statement from
the Israeli Army in which they said a
short while ago an IDF aircraft struck a
terrorist Squad carrying anti-tank
guided missiles in the city of Khan
Eunice in the southern Gaza Strip
details to follow so not a lot right now
but we are expecting to hear more in the
hours to come and one of the reasons
we're expecting to hear more is because
you've had a situational assessment that
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu had
been in attendance at for the last seven
or eight hours now you have a meeting
going on that includes the Prime
Minister as well as his security and
defense cabinet and we are expecting
also that there will be a press
conference given jointly by the Israeli
Prime Minister as well as the Israeli
defense minister joov gallant and that
that should happen around 8 PM local
time we expect that in that presser we
will be hearing the the Prime Minister
congratulating the Army on carrying out
this Mission but also we expect that he
will most likely be addressing Hamas
directly because right now there's a lot
of concern about if this will lead to
wider escal relation obviously as you
heard Willem speak about just a few
moments ago right now there's concern
that there will be rocket launches
towards Southern Israel there are
preparations being made one of the
questions being asked is how much of an
escalation might there be and the
Israeli government is contending with
the question of is this going to be an
escalation that's only going to be seen
by Islamic Jihad which would mean that
perhaps the government here would only
contend with perhaps hundreds of
missiles being launched from Gaza or
will it include Hamas and if that were
to be the case that's a much wider
escalation that could mean that there
would be thousands of rockets being
launched from Gaza toward Israel in the
hours or days to come so it's a very
tenuous situation here right now we're
waiting to hear directly from the Prime
Minister from the defense minister and
then we'll get more details about what
precisely Israel is expecting and what
my transpire in the days to come that's
Muhammad in West Jerusalem thank you
very much indeed we're going to bring in
Osan Hamden he's senior spokesman for
Hamas is joining us on the from Beirut
on the phone good to have you with us on
Al Jazeera if there is a response to
this from Gaza or indeed anywhere else
what role would Hamas play in that
well it's clear that eternity I was
taking the situation to a great
escalation he started the attack on
gazelle assassinating senior members in
uh
Jihad everyone knows that Netanyahu is
facing a serious internal troubles with
the opposition
and he's using the model of Hitler and
the Nazism he wants to create problems
with the Palestinians in order to
overcome his internal problems so
initially we believe that the one who
will be responsible for what may happen
is government
our response as Palestinians is as usual
we have to defend our people we have to
defend ourselves we have to protect the
civilians when under the Israeli strikes
last night and today everyone knows that
there were women children among the
people who were killed by the the
Israeli strikes yesterday
so the position of Hamas that we are
part of our people and you are in charge
and responsible to protect our people
and our community and the Israelis have
to understand they they have to look for
the consequences for what may they do
against the Palestinians especially
against the undercuts for those of us
outside who are perhaps not clear about
the power Dynamic that exists within
Gaza between Hamas and Islamic Jihad is
it likely that if there is to be a
response given that there were three
Islamic Jihad leaders killed in these
airstrikes is Hamas likely to leave the
response to Islamic Jihad or will Hamas
have a role to play in that response
or do
what the main idea that the Palestinians
were not watching their people being
killed their women and children being
killed the Palestinians will not accept
I mean the presidents in Gaza if they
are Hamas or Islamic as Jihad will not
accept what the thing now is doing and
they will say Let It Go
will happen how it will be arranged it
will be done among the Palestinians
themselves and I think it's good to wait
and see what will happen at all the ACT
there have been increasing calls in the
last few hours for restraint and the
Israelis themselves have said that
whether or not this situation escalates
is dependent entirely on how Islamic
Jihad and perhaps Hamas respond to this
How likely is it that Hamas will listen
to those calls for restraint
one uh it's an island exact day attack
they kill they destroyed and then they
will say well we will wait for the
response and the consequences will
depend on what will happen next they
have to understand their actions will be
received by a reaction what they will do
has its own consequences and the one who
is supposed to take the responsibility
for that is the Israeli government and
they will take the responsibility and I
believe they have to understand this
lesson the time of being attacked
without any response
available now
there will be a reaction for their
attack and everyone will knows
shown that the Palestinian resistance
will not keep watching just by
counting the rockets and Counting the
bombs of the Israelis falling on the
Palestinians women children and get the
spirit
Asana Hamden a senior spokesman for
Hamas thank you very much indeed for
being with us